Add migration guide for brevo module v2 to v3 (#3256)
vivid-planet/comet: docs/docs/9-brevo-module/migration-guide/migration-from-brevo-v2-to-v3.md

---
title: Migrating from v2 to v3
---

> Make sure, that your project is compatible with COMET v7:
> 
> -   Now requires >= v7.10.0 for @comet packages
> -   Now requires >= 5.9.8 for @mikro-orm packages (except @mikro-orm/nestjs where >= 5.2.3 is required)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure, that your project uses COMET v7.10.0 or later.
```

We could even use a warning admonition here.

## API

### Create `email-campaign` and `target-group` entities

Use `createEmailCampaignEntity` for creating `email-campaign` entity. Pass `EmailCampaignContentBlock`, `Scope` and `TargetGroup`.

```ts
export const EmailCampaign = createEmailCampaignEntity({
    EmailCampaignContentBlock: EmailCampaignContentBlock,
    Scope: EmailCampaignContentScope,
    TargetGroup: TargetGroup,
});
```

Use `createTargetGroupEntity` for creating `target-group` entity. Pass `Scope` and optional `BrevoFilterAttributes`

```ts
export const TargetGroup = createTargetGroupEntity({
    Scope: EmailCampaignContentScope,
    BrevoFilterAttributes: BrevoContactFilterAttributes,
});
```

Pass both to the `AppModule`:

```diff
      BrevoModule.register({
        brevo: {
              //...
  +        EmailCampaign
  +        TargetGroup
           }
        //...
      });
```

> ### Import `PublicUploadsModule` in the project's `AppModule`

Reviewer: The public uploads module has been rename to file uploads in Comet v7

Author: Thanks - I got it wrong from the changeset. It's correct in the code.

-   BREVO_DOUBLE_OPT_IN_TEMPLATE_ID
-   BREVO_ALLOWED_REDIRECT_URL

### Remove `allowedRedirectionUrl` from the brevo module configuration

```diff
BrevoModule.register({
    brevo: {
-       allowedRedirectionUrl: config.brevo.allowedRedirectionUrl,
        //...
    },
    //..
})
```

## ADMIN

### Add brevo configuration page to admin interface

Import `BrevoConfigPage` from `@comet/brevo-admin` and add it to your project's MasterMenu. All necessary brevo configuration (for each scope) must be configured within this page for email campaigns to be sent.

### Define `scopeParts` in `BrevoConfig`

Previously the `scopeParts` were passed to the functions:

-   createBrevoContactsPage
-   createTargetGroupsPage
-   createEmailCampaignsPage

Remove `scopeParts` from those functions.
Instead define them in the `BrevoConfigProvider` once:

```tsx
<BrevoConfigProvider
    value={{
        scopeParts: ["domain", "language"],
        ...otherProps,
    }}
>
    {children}
</BrevoConfigProvider>
```

## SITE

### Install new `mail-rendering` package

Install `@comet/brevo-mail-rendering` in your project's site. This package offers reuseable frontend components for rendering emails.

> Optional: You can use the `NewsLetterImageBlock` for rendering Images in your Newsletter campaigns.

Reviewer: General question: Is the casing really NewsLetter? Shouldn't it be Newsletter?

Author: No, that's a typo - thanks!
